Abstract. Though not belonging to the mainstream school-system, supplementary education and shadow-education provide students with necessary educational reinforcement. Russia in particular has pioneered the establishment of worldwide organizations for the supplementary education of juveniles, owing to which they have already received global recognition from others in the field. This article presents a comparative analysis of the influence of Russian juvenile supplementary education upon the equivalent system in China.

The Russian supplementary education system, which in 2018 June will reach its 100th birthday, evidently possesses a considerable degree of maturity. Knowing that, back in 2001, China and Russia had established the Sino Russian Textbook Committee for the purpose of collaborating with respect to questions of education and culture, it is right and proper that we should analyze the venerable Russian system, especially where it concerns the supplementary education of juveniles, to see what aspects we might borrow for our own improvement.

I. Comparison of Russian Supplementary Education and Chinese Shadow Education

IV. Conclusion

Extracirricular mentorship may be properly understood as an extension to classroom-teaching. It enhances the experience of official education by reinforcing the elements of the study-plan on an individual basis. Although different countries must contend with different circumstances, and furthermore may harbor doctrines at odds with each other concerning the purpose of education, such as to prevent the wholesale adoption of one country's educational policies by another, we believe that these disparate systems will be eroded in the long run owing to the Postmodern emphasis upon universality, intensity, and vitality. Thus, it is necessary and proper that we should subject the concept of "extracirricular mentorship" to close scrutiny. By learning from the accumulated experiences of other countries, we may allow China's shadow-education to become the center of investigatory efforts and to incorporate the latest advances in culture and science. In doing so, we may discover and nurture children of prodigal talent and create additional exploratory opportunities for our youth.